Let's talk about implementing the
loadWords function in the most basic way
that we can possibly imagine.
If we load in the dictionary from
a JSON file that just has an array,
we can just stick it in another array,
right?
We can just stick it in an array, and
that's kinda the most basic form of
data structure that we will start with.
So I will make a dictionary variable.
I'll have it be an object, I'm sorry,
we'll have it be an array.
Actually, we don't even need to assign it
to an array, but we'll just assign that.
Because in our loadWords function,
all we're going to
do is assign it to a copy of
what was passed in on wordList.
We're only making a copy of it,
because we're not actually gonna
mutate this array in any way.
But just as a kind of a good step,
it's important to be clean
with what we receive.
We don't wanna receive things and
then potentially cause mutations of them.
The other thing that the to-do comment
mentions is that the loadWords function
needs to return a value that represents
how many entries are in the data structure
for whatever that means for
the data structure.
In this case,
it's whatever the length of the array is.
But we'll be doing different
data structure shortly, and
those will have different representations
of their quote, unquote size.
So here,
we'll just return dictionary.length.
But in other cases,
we'll run a return a different value.
The reason why we're returning that value,
by the way,
we're treating that as a unit of memory.
We're not actually getting down to the low
level and trying to count bytes or
do any kind of memory profiling.
Again, that was asked earlier.
There are great courses on here about
how to use the deep developer tools and
do real memory profiling and
heap snapshots.
We're just approximating
here with units of memory.
So we'll just treat each string as kind
of an equally sized unit of memory.
And so if we have 1,000 strings,
that's 1,000 units of memory.
If we have 10,000,
then that's 10 times as much, so
we'll just treat it kind of that way.
So it's an approximation of our memory
usage that's why we're doing that.
The next thing that we need to do is
implement the algorithm that we described,
the permutation algorithm
that we described.
So I'll take out, let me give us
some room down here at the bottom.
Take out that to-do comment.
And we do want a list of words that
we will fill in the array of words,
and that does end up being
what we wanna return.
So we know that we have an array
of dictionary words to consult, so
we're definitely gonna need to loop
over the entire data structure of words.
So we'll say, let word of dictionary,
And for each one of those,
we can do some very basic filtering,
which is if the input.length,
meaning the number of characters that
were passed in for us to match against.
If the input.length is at least
as long as the word.length,
then we know we should look at it.
Otherwise, if the word is longer than
our input characters, there's no
reason to even possibly consider it,
because it's definitely too long.
So that's one of our quick filters.
And then we're gonna call out
to a function we're gonna write.
We're gonna call out a checkWord function,
that's gonna be our recursive
function that we'll check this.
And it needs to check the word that
we are looking at and the input.
And if that works, then we want to
push that into our words already.
So we'll say words.push(word).
So if it returns as true, then we'll push
it, otherwise, we'll just keep going.
So all the real heavy lifting we'll do
in a function that we called checkWord.
I'm going to for just simply purposes
of creating a slightly cleaner API,
I'm going to use an inner function
that actually does its recursion.
We could have reworked it a little bit so
that the outer checkWord does this, but
I'm just gonna to keep
things a little bit cleaner.
So what we will do is call the inner
function that will name permute.
We're gonna start with an empty string and
the input.
So effectively, what's gonna happen
is that we're gonna take a character
off of the input and add it to this
word that we're building up little by
little by little until we are able to
find a permutation that matches the word.
So that's what this empty string is.
It's gonna go character by character
through the possible tree of
permutations adding a character, and
then adding all the other possible
characters after it, and so forth.
So that first parameter to permute
is the thing that's gonna build
up progressively as we take
characters off of input.
So let's then,
Write our inner function called permute.
We'll call that prefix because, again,
that's the leading characters of
a permutation that we're hoping will match
the word basically, that's what prefix is.
And then we'll call the letters passed in,
we'll call them remaining.
So we have a prefix which starts
out as an empty string, but
then on the next recursive call,
it'll have a single character in it.
And we've got the remaining characters,
cuz we've taken that one out of the set,
get the remaining characters left.
So we need to look at all of the remaining
characters to create our next level,
our next layer of our permutation.
So we will say, for let i =0; i <
remaining.length, and i++.
So this is just a loop to go
through all of, I don't know why
I called that remaining,
all of the remaining characters.
Let's pull off the current character.
I'm sorry,
this will be kind of the current word, but
it's not really a word yet, because we
haven't matched it to the dictionary.
But we'll just call it current, and that
is the catenation of whatever prefix is.
Again, starts out at empty string, and
then builds up whatever
prefix is plus remaining(i).
So what you can see here is that
whatever that prefix is, let's say,
that prefix is AC, and now our remaining
characters are P, and E, and T.
So we're gonna have one loop iteration,
which is ACP, ACT, ACE, so far,
follow where I'm going with this?
All right, now,
what we can ask is if we made a match.
If the current== word,
then we know we can just exit out quickly.
We'll say, return true.
If we have more characters to consider, so
remaining.length has to be greater 1,
not 0.
Cuz we already took the first, or
one of the items out of remaining.
So we just need to make sure that
remaining has more than one other
character, at least one other character
besides the one that we're looking at.
And we need to make sure that we haven't
gone over the length of it,
so word.length.
We already have a check here that says,
don't even try dictionary
words that are too long.
Well, this is just making sure that we
stop the permutation whenever we reach
the length of the word.
So remember, I said if we had a three
letter word in the dictionary, but
we had 15 input letters,
we would stop at 15 times 14 times 13.
So that's what we're doing
here as we're saying,
as long as the current.length
that we built up is less than
the word.length that we're considering,
let's go ahead and stop.
And then we're gonna check to see
if we make our recursive call.
We're going to pass in current.
Remember, current is
kind of the temporary,
partial permutation is the best word for
it.
We're gonna pass in that
partial permutation.
And we need to pass in
the remaining characters
minus whichever one it is
that we just pulled out.
We're pulling them out from
different positions as we go along.
So we're gonna need to do
a slice on the remaining,
From 0 up to whatever i is,
but not including i.
And then a slice starting at i,
i think, starting at i+1
Okay, just so we are clear here.
You see that remaining of slice,
remaining.slice0 up to i is
whatever characters are earlier
in the remaining string that we
aren't considering right now.
Those are in the set of further remaining.
And then whatever is after the characters,
the one character that we're looking at,
that's also in the set.
So take the two slices on either side of
whichever character we're looking at,
put them together, and that makes a new
smaller set of remaining characters.
Because we've already taken off one of
those characters and put it into current.
All right, so if the permute was able to
find that by going down its recursive tree
however far and it bubbled us back up to
true, then we can just simply return true.
But if it somehow failed
way down deep in its tree,
and we need to bubble back up,
we don't wanna bubble back up a false.
Because that doesn't mean
that we haven't found it,
it just means that we didn't find
it in that part of the tree.
So we just need to keep going.
So that's why we're not just
returning the result of permute,
we're checking to see if that was true.
And if so, then bubbling back up the true.
So what this is going to do
is keep looping through and
keep checking these different words, or
these different partial permutations
until we find a match or until we know
that we're never gonna find a match and
then it just exits out of this loop.
And so at the end of the loop,
if we never returned true,
then we know for
sure that we can return false.
Let's make sure we understand from a
theory perspective how this is recursion,
how this is divide and conquer.
What we're saying is that to
permute a set of characters,
we start with the first character and
then we take the permutations of all
of the remaining characters, right?
So we're saying all these
remaining characters,
if I started with the five characters,
the P, C, E, R, and A,
let's start with P, and let's get all
of the permutations of C, E, R, and A.
And then, let's start with C, and get
all the permutations of P, E, R, and A.
And then let's start with E, and
get all the permutations of P, C,R, and
A, and so on.
So we're starting with
the first letter and then,
again, we're breaking down to permute C,
E, R, and A.
C, E, R, A, to permute those
four characters, we could start
with C plus all the permutations of E,
R, and A, you follow that?
That's our recursive definition or divide
and conquer definition for a permutation.
And we are absolutely taking
advantage of the short-circuiting,
which is, as soon as find a match,
exit out now.
Don't keep going through the entire tree.
So if you think back to our
discussion about traversal, here,
in some ways, the order kinda does matter.
Because we could go out this from
the wrong order and ended up going through
a much longer portion of the tree
before we ended up at the right thing.
That's why we're picking the permutation
where it matches in the first position
as opposed to waiting until we got
a permutation where it matched in the last
position.
We would had go through a whole
lot more of the tree to find that.
So we're optimizing to quit as early
as we know that we found a match,
and we only exhaust all possible
options if we never find a match.
Let's save that, switch back over to
our browser And
we should have a working solution if not
a particularly non-performance solution.
So on the short dictionary,
which is the one that comes up by default,
I know that there's the tiny and
the long, but
I'm just gonna stick with
the short dictionary.
But just so you can check,
if we load in the 80 word dictionary,
it loads in so quick that it's
not even a 10th of a millisecond.
But the 370,000 words dictionary,
it takes 23 milliseconds to
copy that size of an array.
So we can see even in this very
small first example a little bit of
benchmarking of the performance time.
We see VA it's now kinda
caching some of that work, but
you can see a little bit
of that benchmarking.
And we will see later when we
try other data structures that
those times significantly change.
The other thing to be looking
at is the size of the entries.
When there's 80 words in the dictionary,
there's 80 entries.
When there's 2,400, there's 2,400, right?
So we will also keep an eye on that,
because some data structures will
have more entries than words, and
some data structures will
have less entries than words.
So that's our approximation
of the memory usage, and
our approximation of
the processing time for
the startup of the app before we've
tried to do any searching at all.
And we'll keep an eye on that as we try
our different options as we finish this
exercise.
So because I'm here in the United States,
I'm gonna go ahead and
try a set of characters that I know works.
I'm gonna try an eight letter input,
a, m, e, r, i, c, and a, and
let's see what words come back from
our short dictionary matching though.
Okay, so we got acre and air,
we got America like we'd expect arc,
are, area, arm.
You'll notice that the order that we're
getting these in is alphabetized,
because we went through
an alphabetized dictionary and
we preserved the order in the way
that we went through them.
So that's why those words are ending
up in alphabetized order.
That won't necessarily always be
true of any algorithm that you pick.
So that's another thing that we
would just wanna keep an eye on is,
did I accidentally end up selecting
other words in a different order?
And then maybe I need to go back and
sort my words,
because users generally want to see
them presented in dictionary order.
Okay, so that took 0.2 of a second.
It took 200 milliseconds on 8 input.
Let's try american,
which is nine letters and
let's watch the timing of that.
It went from 200 milliseconds
up to 1100 milliseconds.
So that was about a five or
six X, looks like.
Let's go up to ten characters.
It's still going, so
we went up to 6.36 seconds.
So we see it starting to
significantly grow by way
more than just double each time, right?
So if I did this word,
which is 11 characters if
I'm counting correctly, is that?
No, that's still ten, but
should be the same as Americans.
I just wanna run that one and
see what it does.
So that took 39.25
seconds to run that one.
So you can see that this is
growing at what we predicted,
which was approximately factorial or
in that neighborhood.
It's growing at a significantly long time.
And the more characters that we put in,
it would lock up for
even longer periods of time.
So we know we have
generally working solution.
We've kind of done some some
visual checking against this, but
we've only been checking against
the 2400 character dictionary.
What happens if we try go back and
try the long dictionary,
and try it with our eight character and
let's just see what that does.
So before, that was 200 milliseconds, And
it's still running, and
it's still running.
It's kinda funny that when I do this,
sometimes it does what I'm expecting,
but sometimes it's significantly longer.
I can't control what background processes
might be running on my computer or
whatever.
But yeah,
14 seconds just to do the eight input.
I'm not even gonna try the nine input,
because we'd be here for another minute or
two waiting on.
But you can see that now, we see
a verification that not only is it growing
on the size of our input characters,
but also on the size of our dictionary.
Now, 370,000 word dictionary
is way bigger than we need.
My estimates from my Google searching
are that almost all common English words
could fit in about 80 to 100,000.
So that's almost four times
the size that it needs to be,
but that's still crazy too long for us.
It was too long at 2,400 words,
which was way too short of a dictionary.
So we can imagine if we had
a dictionary at 80 or 100,000 words,
we'd have similar problems.
Okay, so we can see here that
our initial kind of naive,
recursive permutation approach
is not going to work for us.
The code that you have now
represents option one.
And so if your code happened to not work,
you missed parentheses or
a comma somewhere, again, stash whatever
you've done so you can check it out later.
And then just check out the option one
branch so that's your starting point for
the next optimizations that will do it.